docs/pct/wiring-howto.md, before:

# How to Wire a Function to Run on Target Relational Databases
## Alloy Compiler
*Only needed if you are adding a **new** Platform function or editing the function signature of an existing function.*

Currently, we need to manually register new functions in Handlers.java. This is needed by the Alloy compiler to recognize the function.
Handlers.java needs to be updated in two places. To do the updates:
1. Look at how similar functions were registered
2. Make sure all variations of your function signature are registered
3. check that params and return output types and multiplicities match what you expect

###### Example PRs showing Handlers.java updates
- [Handlers.java update for between](https://github.com/finos/legend-engine/pull/3560/files#diff-e99981e388e52fb746dc3e0959192f6db18bc1ec8ed1b43b8a769f28c5233564)
Notice how there is one line per function signature found in *between.pure*
- [Handlers.java update for timeBucket](https://github.com/finos/legend-engine/pull/3491/files#diff-e99981e388e52fb746dc3e0959192f6db18bc1ec8ed1b43b8a769f28c5233564)
There is only one function signature registered as *timeBucket.pure* only contains one function signature (at the time of the PR)

## Registering the New Function to Enable Pure to SQL Translation
The function signature for your new function must be registered in, at a minimum, three places:
1. ```pureToSqlQuery.pure```
2. ```relationalExtension.pure```, and
3. ```dbExtension.pure```

See [the "*between*" PR for a simplistic example](https://github.com/finos/legend-engine/pull/3560/files#diff-bf7def219fdef8a303208f8d40450b2b9a99539417b4fe6316cccf439452d1ac)

## Wiring to Target Relational Database Runtimes
We may need to add further SQL translation instructions to help the platform cross-compile to the target database runtimes.
This section describes some common scenarios with examples.

### ANSI SQL Functions
For ANSI SQL functions, we add them to ```extensionDefaults.pure```. This file contains the default SQL translation to
enable cross-compilation to relational target runtimes.

### Non-ANSI SQL Functions
We will need to add database-specific SQL to the respective pure file that contains the custom wiring for that database. E.g. *timeBucket*
has different syntax in two target database runtimes: duckDb and Snowflake.

##### Example
These two queries will not yield equivalent results. Further, you can see that the parameters they accept are different.
```Java
// DuckDb
Select time_bucket(Interval '2 Day', timestamp '2024-01-31 00:32:34');
// results in 
2024-01-31 00:00:00

// Snowflake
SELECT TIME_SLICE(TIMESTAMP_FROM_PARTS(2024, 01, 31, 00, 32, 34), 2, 'DAY', 'START')
// results in
2024-01-30 00:00:00.000
```

We have to adjust for this in the target-specific wiring. To ensure functional correctness, this is how we wired those functions
in the database-specific pure extensions:
###### duckdbExtension.pure
```Java
dynaFnToSql('timeBucket',             $allStates,            ^ToSql(format='cast(time_bucket(%s) as timestamp_s)', transform={p:String[3] | constructIntervalFunction($p->at(2), $p->at(1)) + ', ' + $p->at(0) + ', ' + constructTimeBucketOffset($p->at(2))})),

// DuckDb uses a different origin for calculation of timebuckets; this offset helps to standardize toward unix epoch as origin and
// the offset for intervals < WEEK are set to align with Snowflake's methodology, as opposed to that which is outlined in DuckDb
// ref: https://github.com/duckdb/duckdb/blob/68bd4a5277430245e3d9edf1abbb9813520a3dff/extension/core_functions/scalar/date/time_bucket.cpp#L18
function meta::relational::functions::sqlQueryToString::duckDB::constructTimeBucketOffset(unit:String[1]):String[1]
{
  let unitWithoutQuotes = $unit->removeQuotesIfExist();
  let ISOMondayEpochOffset = 'timestamp \'1969-12-29 00:00:00\'';
  let EpochOffset = 'timestamp \'1970-01-01 00:00:00\'';

  let offset = [
      pair(DurationUnit.YEARS->toString(), $EpochOffset),
      pair(DurationUnit.MONTHS->toString(), $EpochOffset),
      pair(DurationUnit.WEEKS->toString(), $ISOMondayEpochOffset),
      pair(DurationUnit.DAYS->toString(), $EpochOffset),
      pair(DurationUnit.HOURS->toString(), $EpochOffset),
      pair(DurationUnit.MINUTES->toString(), $EpochOffset),
      pair(DurationUnit.SECONDS->toString(), $EpochOffset)
   ]->filter(p | $p.first == $unitWithoutQuotes).second->toOne('Unit not found: ' + $unitWithoutQuotes);
}
```
###### snowflakeExtension.pure
```Java
dynaFnToSql('timeBucket',             $allStates,            ^ToSql(format='TIME_SLICE(%s)', transform={p:String[3]|$p->at(0) + ', ' + constructInterval($p->at(2), $p->at(1))})),

function meta::relational::functions::sqlQueryToString::snowflake::constructInterval(unit:String[1], i:String[1]):String[1]
{
   let unitWithoutQuotes = $unit->removeQuotesIfExist();

   let interval= [
      pair(DurationUnit.YEARS->toString(), '\'YEAR\''),
      pair(DurationUnit.MONTHS->toString(), '\'MONTH\''),
      pair(DurationUnit.WEEKS->toString(), '\'WEEK\''),
      pair(DurationUnit.DAYS->toString(), '\'DAY\''),
      pair(DurationUnit.HOURS->toString(), '\'HOUR\''),
      pair(DurationUnit.MINUTES->toString(), '\'MINUTE\''),
      pair(DurationUnit.SECONDS->toString(), '\'SECOND\'')
   ]->filter(p | $p.first == $unitWithoutQuotes).second->toOne('Unit not supported: ' + $unitWithoutQuotes);

   $i + ', ' + $interval;
}
```

### To Route or not to Route?
This is a choice by the developer. PCT does not care about implementation details, it cares about functional correctness.
Routing is controlled in ```router_routing.pure```.

##### Routing Example
In the case of the *between* platform function, we saw that the platform implementation of inequality
operators for null (Nil) return a boolean result. E.g. ```null >= 1``` evaluates to ```false``` on the platform. 
However, null comparisons on DuckDb and Snowflake target runtimes evaluate to a result of ```null```. 

In the interest of functional correctness, we decided **not** to delegate the calculation of "*between*" to the target databases, but to instead fully route the function such that the generated SQL leverages
the platform's implementation of the calculation. [Note the lack of SQL wiring in the "*between*" PR](https://github.com/finos/legend-engine/pull/3560/files#diff-bf7def219fdef8a303208f8d40450b2b9a99539417b4fe6316cccf439452d1ac). Because this function is fully-routed, the platform uses the underlying SQL translation for inequalities to cross-compile to target relational databases.

> **_Optional:_**
See [Platform Concepts](concepts-glossary.md) for details about the platform/PCT's preference
for functional correctness, and details about *routing*.

## Next Step
Learn how to run PCT Test Suites, and register expectedFailures, for targets where we have chosen not to implement yet, via the [Expected Failures How-To](expected-failures-howto.md).

Commit message:

add native howto docs with cosh as example (#3607)

docs/pct/wiring-howto.md, after:

# How to Wire a Function to Run on Target Relational Databases
## Alloy Compiler
*Only needed if you are adding a **new** Platform function or editing the function signature of an existing function.*

Currently, we need to manually register new functions in Handlers.java. This is needed by the Alloy compiler to recognize the function.
Handlers.java needs to be updated in two places. To do the updates:
1. Look at how similar functions were registered
2. Make sure all variations of your function signature are registered
3. check that params and return output types and multiplicities match what you expect

###### Example PRs showing Handlers.java updates
- [Handlers.java update for between](https://github.com/finos/legend-engine/pull/3560/files#diff-e99981e388e52fb746dc3e0959192f6db18bc1ec8ed1b43b8a769f28c5233564)
Notice how there is one line per function signature found in *between.pure*
- [Handlers.java update for timeBucket](https://github.com/finos/legend-engine/pull/3491/files#diff-e99981e388e52fb746dc3e0959192f6db18bc1ec8ed1b43b8a769f28c5233564)
There is only one function signature registered as *timeBucket.pure* only contains one function signature (at the time of the PR)

## Registering the New Function to Enable Pure to SQL Translation
The function signature for your new function must be registered in, at a minimum, three places:
1. ```pureToSqlQuery.pure```
2. ```relationalExtension.pure```, and
3. ```dbExtension.pure```

See [the "*between*" PR for a simplistic example](https://github.com/finos/legend-engine/pull/3560/files#diff-bf7def219fdef8a303208f8d40450b2b9a99539417b4fe6316cccf439452d1ac)

## Wiring to Target Relational Database Runtimes
We may need to add further SQL translation instructions to help the platform cross-compile to the target database runtimes.
This section describes some common scenarios with examples.

### ANSI SQL Functions
For ANSI SQL functions, we add them to ```extensionDefaults.pure```. This file contains the default SQL translation to
enable cross-compilation to relational target runtimes.

###### Example
*cosh* was added to extensionDefaults.pure instead of in the database-specific extensions as it falls into the same category of functions
as *cos*, *sin*, etc. which are ANSI and already defined in that file.
```Java
dynaFnToSql('cosh',                   $allStates,            ^ToSql(format='cosh(%s)'),
```

### Non-ANSI SQL Functions
We will need to add database-specific SQL to the respective pure file that contains the custom wiring for that database.

##### Example
*timeBucket* has different syntax in two target database runtimes: duckDb and Snowflake. These two queries will not yield equivalent results. Further, you can see that the parameters they accept are different.
```Java
// DuckDb
Select time_bucket(Interval '2 Day', timestamp '2024-01-31 00:32:34');
// results in 
2024-01-31 00:00:00

// Snowflake
SELECT TIME_SLICE(TIMESTAMP_FROM_PARTS(2024, 01, 31, 00, 32, 34), 2, 'DAY', 'START')
// results in
2024-01-30 00:00:00.000
```

We have to adjust for this in the target-specific wiring. To ensure functional correctness, this is how we wired those functions
in the database-specific pure extensions:
###### duckdbExtension.pure
```Java
dynaFnToSql('timeBucket',             $allStates,            ^ToSql(format='cast(time_bucket(%s) as timestamp_s)', transform={p:String[3] | constructIntervalFunction($p->at(2), $p->at(1)) + ', ' + $p->at(0) + ', ' + constructTimeBucketOffset($p->at(2))})),

// DuckDb uses a different origin for calculation of timebuckets; this offset helps to standardize toward unix epoch as origin and
// the offset for intervals < WEEK are set to align with Snowflake's methodology, as opposed to that which is outlined in DuckDb
// ref: https://github.com/duckdb/duckdb/blob/68bd4a5277430245e3d9edf1abbb9813520a3dff/extension/core_functions/scalar/date/time_bucket.cpp#L18
function meta::relational::functions::sqlQueryToString::duckDB::constructTimeBucketOffset(unit:String[1]):String[1]
{
  let unitWithoutQuotes = $unit->removeQuotesIfExist();
  let ISOMondayEpochOffset = 'timestamp \'1969-12-29 00:00:00\'';
  let EpochOffset = 'timestamp \'1970-01-01 00:00:00\'';

  let offset = [
      pair(DurationUnit.YEARS->toString(), $EpochOffset),
      pair(DurationUnit.MONTHS->toString(), $EpochOffset),
      pair(DurationUnit.WEEKS->toString(), $ISOMondayEpochOffset),
      pair(DurationUnit.DAYS->toString(), $EpochOffset),
      pair(DurationUnit.HOURS->toString(), $EpochOffset),
      pair(DurationUnit.MINUTES->toString(), $EpochOffset),
      pair(DurationUnit.SECONDS->toString(), $EpochOffset)
   ]->filter(p | $p.first == $unitWithoutQuotes).second->toOne('Unit not found: ' + $unitWithoutQuotes);
}
```
###### snowflakeExtension.pure
```Java
dynaFnToSql('timeBucket',             $allStates,            ^ToSql(format='TIME_SLICE(%s)', transform={p:String[3]|$p->at(0) + ', ' + constructInterval($p->at(2), $p->at(1))})),

function meta::relational::functions::sqlQueryToString::snowflake::constructInterval(unit:String[1], i:String[1]):String[1]
{
   let unitWithoutQuotes = $unit->removeQuotesIfExist();

   let interval= [
      pair(DurationUnit.YEARS->toString(), '\'YEAR\''),
      pair(DurationUnit.MONTHS->toString(), '\'MONTH\''),
      pair(DurationUnit.WEEKS->toString(), '\'WEEK\''),
      pair(DurationUnit.DAYS->toString(), '\'DAY\''),
      pair(DurationUnit.HOURS->toString(), '\'HOUR\''),
      pair(DurationUnit.MINUTES->toString(), '\'MINUTE\''),
      pair(DurationUnit.SECONDS->toString(), '\'SECOND\'')
   ]->filter(p | $p.first == $unitWithoutQuotes).second->toOne('Unit not supported: ' + $unitWithoutQuotes);

   $i + ', ' + $interval;
}
```

### To Route or not to Route?
- Native Platform Functions - are never routed, as there is no implementation in Pure. **Skip** this section for *native functions*.
- Pure Platform Functions - This is a choice by the developer. PCT does not care about implementation details, it cares about functional correctness.
Routing is controlled in ```router_routing.pure``` via the config in ```function meta::pure::router::routing::shouldStopFunctions```

##### Routing Example
In the case of the *between* platform function, we saw that the platform implementation of inequality
operators for null (Nil) return a boolean result. E.g. ```null >= 1``` evaluates to ```false``` on the platform. 
However, null comparisons on DuckDb and Snowflake target runtimes evaluate to a result of ```null```. 

In the interest of functional correctness, we decided **not** to delegate the calculation of "*between*" to the target databases, but to instead fully route the function such that the generated SQL leverages
the platform's implementation of the calculation. [Note the lack of SQL wiring in the "*between*" PR](https://github.com/finos/legend-engine/pull/3560/files#diff-bf7def219fdef8a303208f8d40450b2b9a99539417b4fe6316cccf439452d1ac). Because this function is fully-routed, the platform uses the underlying SQL translation for inequalities to cross-compile to target relational databases.

> **_Optional:_**
See [Platform Concepts](concepts-glossary.md) for details about the platform/PCT's preference
for functional correctness, and details about *routing*.

## Next Step
Learn how to run PCT Test Suites, and register expectedFailures, for targets where we have chosen not to implement yet, via the [Expected Failures How-To](expected-failures-howto.md).
